Princeton University For Prospective Graduate Students:

Welcome and thank you for your interest in the graduate program in physics. 
When Applying to the Physics program, please proceed directly to Graduate Admissions (link is external).  

The deadline for the application is December 15th.

Please consult the Graduate School website (link is external) to find the list of required materials .

In the evaluation of each applicant, the Physics Department looks not only for the success that the applicant 
has achieved so far in his or her study of physics, but also for his or her promise as a research scientist. 
Admissions decisions are made during February by a special committee of physics faculty members. The Admissions 
Committee seeks all the relevant information it can gather in order to assess each candidate's interest in 
and potential for advanced research in physics. Admitted students begin their physics study the following 
September -- they never begin the program in January. Because of the small number of students, typically 20 per 
class, applicants are admitted only as candidates for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. There is no separate 
Master of Arts program and no provision for part-time students. However, an M.A. is awarded to those who desire 
it after they have passed their Generals requirements.

Advice to potential applicants:

We look for people with a strong physics background, reflected in the courses taken at the undergraduate level 
and in the grades received (GPA).   An undergraduate degree in physics is not required, but your coursework must
include the core of an undergrad physics program: mechanics, electricity & magnetism, thermal and statistical physics, 
quantum mechanics, and experimental (lab) work.   We look at your undergraduate record for breadth, depth, and performance.

We require the GRE General Test (link is external) and the GRE Subject Test in Physics (link is external), 
and we pay attention to GRE scores. We do not have a minimum GRE score for admission, but we find that 
almost all of the students admitted to our program have scored highly on the GRE Subject Test in Physics. 
Performing well on the GRE Subject Test in Physics requires putting some time into it, an investment that 
reveals discipline and commitment, which are both good indicators of future success. Be sure to list 
Princeton University as one of the schools to receive your scores. If you have already taken the GRE and 
Princeton was not among the schools you listed, contact ETS (link is external) and arrange for your score 
to be sent to Princeton.

The GREs must be taken no later than November in order for your scores to be considered by the Admissions Committee.

Grades and test scores are important, but do not tell the whole story. We value research experience. 
Undergraduate theses or research projects in or out of class are of special interest to the Admissions Committee. 
For experimentalists it is important to have lab experience. If you are a potential experimentalist then in 
your application please tell us about any "hands-on" experience you may have, including hobbies or jobs 
involving mechanical work or electronics. Also, computer skills are very valuable both for experimentalists and theorists.

The Statement of Academic Purpose is another important tool that we use in our decision making process. 
We look for a thoughtful statement of purpose that shows signs of creativity and a potential for research. 
The statement must be convincing and coherent, based on some familiarity with the proposed area of research. 
It is often helpful if you can relate your research and interests to the research of specific faculty and 
groups at Princeton. View our suggestions about the statement.

Finally, we pay much attention to letters of recommendation by people who really know you and can provide 
relevant information about your potential in physics. Recommendation letters should help us evaluate your 
capacity for research, a most important criterion for admission. If possible, choose recommenders who are 
familiar with the graduate physics program at Princeton and can gauge your ability compared to previous 
Princeton students. Along with the reference form in your application packet, give the advisors the 
following letter offering guidelines: Letter for Recommenders

And lastly, there are many physicists working on intere

https://phy.princeton.edu/graduate-program/graduate-admissions
Princeton University
